.TH DHARDOP 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhardop \- turn DigiHub's ARDOP TNC (ardopcf) on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhardop
.BR on | off | status
.br
.B dhardop
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhardop
enables, disables, or reports the status of the
.B dhardop.service
systemd unit (see
.BR dhardopd (1)),
which runs
.B ardopcf
for ARDOP digital modes, most commonly Winlink\-over\-ARDOP with
.BR pat (1).
.PP
Like
.BR dhrig (1)
and
.BR dhpat (1),
.B dhardop
is a simple independent toggle, not part of
.BR dhmode (1)'s
mutually\-exclusive digital mode set, and doesn't touch
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B defaultmode
field.
.PP
.B "dhardop on"
also regenerates
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
via
.B patconf.py
(the same generator
.BR dhpat (1)
uses), so Pat picks up ARDOP's address and, if
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
are set, is wired to control PTT for it via
.BR dhrigctld (1)
\-\- harmless if Pat isn't turned on yet, and not required for
.B ardopcf
itself to run, so a failure here is a warning, not a reason to abort.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B on
Sync Pat's configuration and install (if needed)/enable/start
.BR dhardop.service .
.TP
.B off
Stop and disable
.BR dhardop.service .
.TP
.B status
Print the service's current systemd state
.RI ( active ,
.IR inactive ,
etc.) and exit. Read\-only.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn the ARDOP TNC on:
.B dhardop on
.TP
Turn it off:
.B dhardop off
.TP
Check whether it's running:
.B dhardop status
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Read for
.I callsign
(required) and, if set,
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
, when turning on.
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
Updated (not overwritten) by
.B patconf.py
when turning on; see
.BR dhpatd (1).
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhardop.service
Installed on first
.B "dhardop on" .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The requested action completed, or help was displayed.
.TP
.B 1
.I .dhinfo
is missing, or (for
.BR on )
.B ardopcf
is not installed.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown action was supplied (not
.IR on ,
.IR off ,
or
.IR status ).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhardopd (1),
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
