.TH DHARDOPD 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhardopd \- run ardopcf for DigiHub's ARDOP TNC
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhardopd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhardopd
runs
.B ardopcf
(the
.I ardopcf
fork of ARDOP by Peter LaRue, which Pat's own documentation recommends
over the original
.IR piardopc ),
listening on TCP port 8515 for host programs like
.BR pat (1),
with its web GUI (for audio level adjustment) on port 8514.
.PP
.B dhardopd
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhardop.service
unit, not to be started manually. Like
.BR dhdirewolf.service ,
.BR dhrigctld.service ,
and
.BR dhpat.service ,
it is
.B not
enabled automatically by
.BR install.sh ;
it stays off until
.BR dhardop (1)
turns it on. Upstream notes that
.B ardopcf
is not currently well suited to running unattended from boot, which is
part of why DigiHub leaves it off until explicitly requested rather
than enabling it unconditionally the way
.BR dhweb.service
is.
.PP
The capture/playback audio device is selected the same
best\-effort way as
.BR dhdirewolf (1)
(via
.IR audiodetect.py ,
shared between the two). Unlike
.BR direwolf (1),
.B ardopcf
does not fall back gracefully when no device is given \-\- it tries an
ALSA alias literally named
.I ARDOP
and exits if that alias isn't configured. So, unlike
.BR dhdirewolf (1),
.B dhardopd
refuses to start at all (rather than exec into a crash loop) if
auto\-detection can't confidently identify a device.
.PP
PTT is deliberately
.B not
configured here. Upstream's own documentation recommends letting a
host program handle PTT/CAT via Hamlib rather than giving
.B ardopcf
its own serial port options, to avoid two programs fighting over the
same port. DigiHub follows this: if
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
are set,
.BR patconf.py
wires Pat to control PTT for ARDOP via
.BR dhrigctld (1)
instead.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhardop.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhardop (1)
on first use.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhardopd
does not exit under normal operation; it runs until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded,
.B ardopcf
is not installed, or the radio's audio device could not be confidently
auto\-detected.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhardop (1),
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
