.TH DHAUDIOHAT 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhaudiohat \- activate the Raspberry Pi device\-tree overlay for DigiHub's audio HAT
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhaudiohat
.br
.B dhaudiohat
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhaudiohat
reads
.I $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B radiointerface
field and, if it names an I2S audio HAT DigiHub knows about
.RB ( fepi ,
.BR aiz ,
or
.BR drapizero ),
ensures the matching
.B dtoverlay
line is active in
.I /boot/firmware/config.txt
(or
.I /boot/config.txt
on older layouts), commenting out any other audio HAT overlay DigiHub
manages so the two don't conflict.
.PP
The overlay mapping is confirmed against DigiPi's own
.RI ( https://github.com/craigerl/digipi )
.IR home/pi/localize.sh :
.B aiz
and
.B drapizero
both use
.BR dtoverlay=audioinjector\-wm8731\-audio ;
.B fepi
is the baseline
.BR dtoverlay=fe\-pi\-audio .
.B digipihat
and every other
.B radiointerface
value (USB/external devices: cm108, aioc, usbradio, digirig, usbaudio)
need no overlay at all, confirmed the same way \-\- running
.B dhaudiohat
with one of those set is a no\-op, not an error.
.PP
This only applies on a Raspberry Pi; DigiHub can be installed on any
Debian system, and most of those have no
.I config.txt
at all. If neither candidate path exists,
.B dhaudiohat
fails with a clear message rather than silently doing nothing.
.PP
Device\-tree overlays are only applied at boot, so
.B dhaudiohat
does not restart anything itself \-\- reboot afterward for the change to
take effect.
.PP
.BR dhedit (1)
and
.BR dhweb (1)'s
Configuration page both print a reminder to run
.B "sudo dhaudiohat"
when
.B radiointerface
is set to
.BR fepi ,
.BR aiz ,
or
.BR drapizero ,
but neither runs it automatically \-\- it needs root, and the required
reboot means there's no benefit to triggering it from an unattended web
request.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Apply the overlay for the currently configured radio interface:
.B sudo dhaudiohat
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Read for
.IR radiointerface .
.TP
.I /boot/firmware/config.txt
.TQ
.I /boot/config.txt
Patched in place; the first of these that exists is used.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
No overlay change was needed (including non\-HAT interfaces), or the
overlay was already active, or was just activated successfully.
.TP
.B 1
.I .dhinfo
is missing, or neither
.I config.txt
candidate exists on this system.
.TP
.B 2
.I config.txt
could not be written (not run as root).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR dhdirewolf (1)
