.TH DHCONSOLED 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhconsoled \- run ttyd + login(1) for DigiHub's browser\-based web console
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhconsoled
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhconsoled
runs
.BR ttyd (1)
with
.BR login (1)
as its command, giving a full terminal in the browser that's
authenticated the same way a serial console or SSH session would be:
with a real system username and password, checked by PAM.
.PP
.B dhconsoled
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhconsole.service
unit, not to be started manually. Unlike
.BR dhgpsmonitor.service
or
.BR dhweb.service ,
it is
.B not
enabled automatically by
.BR install.sh ;
it stays off until
.BR dhconsole (1)
turns it on.
.PP
.B dhconsoled
is the one DigiHub daemon besides
.BR dhnoded (1)
that runs as
.B root
instead of the installing user \-\-
.BR login (1)
needs root to authenticate via PAM and then
.BR setuid (2)/ setgid (2)
to whichever account successfully logs in, the same way a serial
.BR getty (8)
or
.BR sshd (8)
does. The interactive shell the operator ends up in afterward belongs
entirely to the account they authenticated as; nothing about the
session itself runs with elevated privilege beyond what that account
already has (e.g. its own sudo rights, if any).
.PP
.B dhweb
never sees, stores, or handles the login password \-\- it only starts
and stops
.BR dhconsole.service ;
authentication happens entirely inside the ttyd/login session itself,
in the browser.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn the console on (starts/enables this service automatically):
.B dhconsole on
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhconsole
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhconsole \-f
.TP
Open the console once running:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:7681
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhconsole.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhconsole (1)
on first use.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhconsoled
does not exit under normal operation; it runs until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded, or
.B ttyd
is not installed.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhconsole (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR login (1),
.BR ttyd (1)
