.TH DHCONSOLE 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhconsole \- turn DigiHub's web console (ttyd) on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhconsole
.BR on | off | status
.br
.B dhconsole
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhconsole
enables, disables, or reports the status of the
.B dhconsole.service
systemd unit (see
.BR dhconsoled (1)),
which gives a full terminal in the browser, running directly as the
DigiHub operator account. There is
.B no
username or password prompt \-\- DigiHub already assumes a
trusted\-network, no\-auth model for every other
.BR dhweb (1)
page, and the console follows the same one rather than being the one
page that asks.
.PP
\fBTurning this on means anyone who can reach port 7681 has an
unauthenticated shell as this account.\fR The other toggles below
.RI ( dhrig ", " dhpat ", " dhardop ", " dhwebchat )
only start a daemon; this one opens a shell. Off by default, and
should stay off unless DigiHub is on a network you trust \-\- never
expose it to the open internet.
.PP
Like
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhardop (1),
and
.BR dhwebchat (1),
.B dhconsole
is a simple independent toggle, not part of
.BR dhmode (1)'s
mutually\-exclusive digital mode set, and doesn't touch
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B on
Install (if needed)/enable/start
.BR dhconsole.service .
.TP
.B off
Stop and disable
.BR dhconsole.service .
.TP
.B status
Print the service's current systemd state
.RI ( active ,
.IR inactive ,
etc.) and exit. Read\-only.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn the web console on:
.B dhconsole on
.TP
Turn it off:
.B dhconsole off
.TP
Check whether it's running:
.B dhconsole status
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhconsole.service
Installed on first
.B "dhconsole on" .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The requested action completed, or help was displayed.
.TP
.B 1
.B ttyd
is not installed (for
.BR on ).
.TP
.B 2
An unknown action was supplied (not
.IR on ,
.IR off ,
or
.IR status ).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhconsoled (1),
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhardop (1),
.BR dhwebchat (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
