.TH DHEDIT 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhedit \- interactively edit the DigiHub configuration stored in .dhinfo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhedit
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhedit
loads
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
and presents an interactive menu for reviewing and editing every field:
callsign, license class, expiry, license status, name, address, latitude,
longitude, the Mapbox API token, the AX Node password, the Winlink
password, the default mode, and the radio interface / rig control fields
(device, baud rate, hamlib rig number). The Maidenhead grid is derived
automatically whenever latitude or longitude changes.
.PP
The APRS password is derived from the callsign (APRS\-IS passcode
algorithm) and cannot be edited directly; it is regenerated automatically
whenever the callsign changes.
.PP
Field edits, password regeneration, and hamdb.org refreshes are held in
memory and only written to
.I .dhinfo
when "Save and exit" is chosen. Choosing "Exit without saving" discards
all changes. Each save first backs up the previous
.I .dhinfo
contents to
.IR .dhinfo.last ,
which
.BR dhupdate (1)
can restore from automatically if
.I .dhinfo
ever goes missing.
.PP
.B dhedit
can also add or remove a GPS device. Adding one re\-runs the same
auto\-detection
.B install.sh
uses (falling back to manual entry if nothing is found), updates
.IR $HOME/.profile ,
and installs and enables the
.B dhgpsmonitor
systemd service. Removing one resets
.I $HOME/.profile
and fully disables and removes the service and its configuration. GPS
device changes take effect immediately and are independent of the
.I .dhinfo
save/exit step.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH "MENU OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "1) Edit fields"
Callsign, license, name, address fields, the Mapbox API token, the
AX Node password, the Winlink password, the default mode, and the radio
interface / rig control fields. Changing the callsign offers to refresh
the other fields from hamdb.org, and always regenerates the APRS
password (shown read\-only in this menu) to match.
.TP
.B "2) Refresh from hamdb.org"
Look up a callsign on hamdb.org and refresh license, name, and address
fields. Latitude/longitude/grid are only replaced if hamdb.org returns
usable coordinates. The APRS password is regenerated to match.
.TP
.B "3) Regenerate AX Node password"
Generates a fresh random alphanumeric AX Node password.
.TP
.B "4) Manage GPS device (add/remove)"
Add (auto\-detect or manual) or remove the configured GPS device and the
.B dhgpsmonitor
service.
.TP
.B "5) Save and exit"
Writes all in\-memory changes to
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
and exits.
.TP
.B "6) Exit without saving"
Discards all in\-memory changes and exits.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
DigiHub configuration file edited by this tool.
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
Backup of the previous
.I .dhinfo
contents, written automatically before each save. Used by
.BR dhupdate (1)
to restore
.I .dhinfo
if it goes missing.
.TP
.I $HOME/.profile
Updated in place when a GPS device is added or removed.
.TP
.I /etc/digihub/gpsmonitor.env
.TQ
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhgpsmonitor.service
Written, or removed, when a GPS device is added or removed.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The editor exited normally (saved, discarded, or help was displayed).
.TP
.B 1
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
was missing (run
.B install.sh
first).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhremove (1),
.BR dhupdate (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR whohami (1),
.BR sysinfo (1)
