.TH DHGPSMONITOR 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhgpsmonitor \- background daemon that keeps .dhinfo's position in sync with a configured GPS device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhgpsmonitor
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhgpsmonitor
loops forever, calling
.B gpsupdate.py
once every poll interval.
.B gpsupdate.py
reads the current GPS fix and, if the device has moved beyond the
configured threshold, rewrites latitude, longitude, and the Maidenhead
grid in
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo .
.PP
.B dhgpsmonitor
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhgpsmonitor.service
unit, not to be started manually. It is installed and enabled
automatically by
.B install.sh
when a GPS device is detected, and can be added, removed, or
reconfigured later with
.B dhedit
("Manage GPS device").
.PP
Configuration is supplied entirely through environment variables,
normally set via the unit's EnvironmentFile
.RI ( /etc/digihub/gpsmonitor.env ):
.TP
.B DigiHubGPSport
Serial device path (e.g. /dev/ttyACM0)
.TP
.B DigiHubGPSbaud
Serial baud rate
.TP
.B DigiHubvenv
Path to the DigiHub Python virtual environment
.TP
.B DigiHubGPSpoll
Seconds between checks (default 30)
.TP
.B DigiHubGPSthreshold
Minimum movement in meters before
.I .dhinfo
is updated (default 20)
.PP
After 5 consecutive checks with no GPS fix, and every 5th check
thereafter, a warning is logged (visible via
.BR journalctl (1))
so a disconnected or unreachable device doesn't fail silently forever.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhgpsmonitor
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhgpsmonitor \-f
.TP
Run in the foreground for manual testing (requires DigiHubGPSport,
DigiHubGPSbaud, and DigiHubvenv to already be exported):
.B dhgpsmonitor
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/digihub/gpsmonitor.env
Environment file supplying the variables above; written by
.B install.sh
or
.BR dhedit .
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhgpsmonitor.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon.
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Updated in place when the position changes.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhgpsmonitor
does not exit under normal operation; it loops until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded, or the DigiHub Python virtual
environment (DigiHubvenv) was not found.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR position (1)
