.TH DHJS8CALLD 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhjs8calld \- run JS8Call on a TigerVNC + noVNC remote desktop for DigiHub's js8call mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhjs8calld
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhjs8calld
starts a TigerVNC desktop
.RI ( :1 ,
port 5901), bridges it into the browser with noVNC (port 6080), and
runs
.BR js8call (1)
on it \-\- DigiHub's answer to JS8Call having no headless mode.
.PP
.B dhjs8calld
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhjs8call.service
unit, not to be started manually. Like WSJT-X, JS8Call needs exclusive
access to the same sound card Direwolf/ardopcf use, so
.B js8call
is a real
.BR dhmode (1)
mode, not an independent toggle: selecting it stops every other mode
first, matching DigiPi's own
.B js8call.service .
.PP
The underlying mechanism is identical to
.BR dhwsjtxd (1)
(see that page for the full explanation of
.BR run_vnc_session() ,
.BR vncserver (1),
Fluxbox, and
.BR novnc_proxy );
this daemon just execs
.B js8call
instead of
.BR wsjtx (1).
.PP
The VNC password comes from
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B vncpass
field \-\- see
.BR dhwsjtxd (1)
for how it's set and applied.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Select js8call mode (starts this service automatically):
.B dhmode js8call
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhjs8call
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhjs8call \-f
.TP
Open the remote desktop once running (also linked from
.BR dhweb (1)'s
Mode page):
.B http://<digihub\-host>:6080/vnc.html
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/tigervnc/xstartup
.TQ
.I $HOME/.config/tigervnc/passwd
Shared VNC configuration; see
.BR dhwsjtxd (1).
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhjs8call.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhmode (1)
on first use.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhjs8calld
does not exit under normal operation; it runs until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded,
.B js8call
is not installed, or
.BR vncserver (1)
is not installed.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhwsjtxd (1),
.BR dhqsstvd (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR vncserver (1),
.BR vncpasswd (1)
