.TH DHMODE 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhmode \- switch DigiHub's active digital mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhmode
.I MODE
.br
.B dhmode
\-\-boot
.br
.B dhmode
\-\-services
.I MODE
.br
.B dhmode
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhmode
switches DigiHub's active digital mode: it stops the systemd service(s)
for every other mode, then starts and enables the service(s) for the
one requested. Most DigiHub digital modes share the same sound card or
serial port and cannot run at the same time, so only one mode is ever
active.
.PP
Services that only start on demand (not enabled unconditionally by
.BR install.sh )
are installed to
.I /etc/systemd/system
from their cached template in
.I /usr/local/lib/digihub
the first time a mode needs them.
.PP
.I MODE
must be one of:
.BR standby ,
.BR tnc ,
.BR tnc300b ,
.BR tracker ,
.BR digipeater ,
.BR node ,
or
.BR winlinkrms .
.BR tnc ,
.BR tnc300b ,
.BR tracker ,
.BR digipeater ,
and
.B node
run
.BR dhdirewolf (1)
(Dire Wolf), reconfigured for the selected mode via
.B direwolfconf.py
from
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo .
.B node
mode additionally runs
.BR dhnoded (1)
.RB ( dhnode.service ),
which attaches Dire Wolf's KISS interface to the kernel AX.25 stack and
runs an
.BR uronode (8)
packet BBS on top of it \-\- see
.BR dhnoded (1)
for the platform requirements (a kernel with AX.25 protocol support;
not available on WSL2's default kernel) and how it's configured from
.IR .dhinfo .
.B winlinkrms
has no service wired up yet; switching to it records the choice but
starts nothing, and prints a notice explaining that.
.PP
APRS WebChat, WSJT\-X, JS8Call, qSSTV, and FLDigi are
.B not
among
.IR MODE 's
values. APRS WebChat doesn't need exclusive radio hardware, only
whichever Direwolf\-backed mode's KISS\-over\-TCP port is already
active, so it's an independent toggle instead \-\- see
.BR dhwebchat (1),
same as
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
and
.BR dhardop (1).
.BR wsjtx ,
.BR js8call ,
.BR qsstv ,
and
.B fldigi
are GUI\-only applications with no headless mode, so there is no
service for
.B dhmode
to start or stop \-\-
.B install.sh
installs the packages, and
.BR dhweb (1)'s
GUI Apps and FLDigi pages show status only.
.PP
Before starting a mode's service(s),
.B dhmode
runs any setup the mode needs (for the Direwolf\-backed modes, this
regenerates
.IR /etc/digihub/direwolf.conf ;
for
.BR node ,
it additionally runs
.B nodeconf.py
to regenerate
.IR /etc/ax25/axports ,
.IR /etc/ax25/ax25d.conf ,
and
.IR /etc/ax25/uronode.perms ,
and to patch
.IR /etc/ax25/uronode.conf ).
If that setup fails, the whole switch is aborted \-\- the previously
active mode is left running and
.I .dhinfo
is not changed.
.PP
On success (or a no\-op switch to an unimplemented mode),
.B dhmode
persists
.I MODE
to the
.B defaultmode
field of
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo ,
backing up the previous contents to
.I .dhinfo.last
first. This is the same field
.BR dhedit (1)
and
.BR dhweb (1)
edit directly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-boot
Apply the mode already persisted in
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B defaultmode
field instead of a mode given on the command line, and do not rewrite
.IR .dhinfo .
Intended for a boot\-time systemd unit so the last selected mode comes
back up automatically after a reboot.
.TP
.BI "\-\-services " MODE
Print the systemd service name(s)
.I MODE
maps to, one per line, and exit. Read\-only: takes no action, does
not require
.I .dhinfo
to exist, and does not need root. Used by
.BR dhweb (1)
to show mode status without duplicating
.BR dhmode 's
mode\-to\-service mapping.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Switch to APRS digipeater mode:
.B dhmode digipeater
.TP
Return to standby (stop every mode's service):
.B dhmode standby
.TP
Re\-apply whatever mode was last selected (e.g. at boot):
.B dhmode \-\-boot
.TP
Show which service(s) the tnc mode uses:
.B dhmode \-\-services tnc
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
.TQ
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
Read every run; the
.B defaultmode
field is updated (with a backup) unless run with
.BR \-\-boot .
.TP
.I /etc/digihub/direwolf.conf
Written by
.B direwolfconf.py
when switching to a Direwolf\-backed mode; see
.BR dhdirewolf (1).
.TP
.I /etc/ax25/axports
.TQ
.I /etc/ax25/ax25d.conf
.TQ
.I /etc/ax25/uronode.perms
.TQ
.I /etc/ax25/uronode.conf
Written or patched by
.B nodeconf.py
when switching to
.BR node
mode; see
.BR dhnoded (1).
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The mode was switched (or recorded) successfully, or help was
displayed.
.TP
.B 1
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
was missing (run
.B install.sh
first).
.TP
.B 2
An unknown mode name was supplied.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhdirewolf (1),
.BR dhnoded (1),
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
