.TH DHNODED 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhnoded \- run kissattach + ax25d + uronode for DigiHub's AX.25 node/BBS mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhnoded
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhnoded
brings up DigiHub's AX.25 packet node/BBS: it attaches Dire Wolf's KISS
pseudo\-terminal to the kernel AX.25 stack with
.BR kissattach (8),
tunes the resulting interface with
.BR kissparms (8),
and then execs
.BR ax25d (8),
which listens on that interface and spawns
.BR uronode (8)
for each incoming connection.
.PP
.B dhnoded
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhnode.service
unit, not to be started manually. It is enabled and started only when
.B node
mode is selected with
.BR dhmode (1),
alongside
.BR dhdirewolf.service ,
and stopped/disabled when switching to any other mode.
.PP
Unlike every other DigiHub service,
.B dhnode.service
runs as
.B root
rather than the installing user: creating and binding an AX.25 kernel
network interface needs root (or
.BR CAP_NET_ADMIN ),
and
.BR ax25d 's
own per\-connection
.B uid
field (see
.BR ax25d.conf (5))
is designed around a root\-started daemon that can spawn programs as a
different user \-\- DigiHub keeps that traditional, well\-tested
arrangement rather than fighting it with ambient capabilities.
.PP
Not every platform's kernel is built with AX.25 protocol support (most
notably, WSL2's default kernel is not).
.B dhnoded
checks for it
.RI ( "modprobe ax25" ,
then
.IR /proc/net/ax25 )
before doing anything else, and fails with a clear message rather than
let
.B kissattach
silently fail to create the interface.
.PP
The AX.25 port/node configuration itself
.RI ( /etc/ax25/axports ,
.IR /etc/ax25/ax25d.conf ,
.IR /etc/ax25/uronode.perms ,
and the
.B HostName
/
.B NodeId
/
.B FlexID
lines of
.IR /etc/ax25/uronode.conf )
is generated by
.B nodeconf.py
(invoked internally by
.BR dhmode ,
not run directly) from
.I $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.I callsign
and
.I axnodepass
fields \-\- see
.BR axnodepass (1).
Everything else in
.I uronode.conf
and the rest of
.BR uronode 's
shipped configuration files
.RI ( uronode.motd ,
.IR uronode.info ,
etc.) is left exactly as the
.B uronode
package installed it.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Select node mode (starts this service automatically):
.B dhmode node
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhnode
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhnode \-f
.TP
Connect to the node locally to test it:
.B axcall radio \fIYOURCALL\fR
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ax25/axports
.TQ
.I /etc/ax25/ax25d.conf
.TQ
.I /etc/ax25/uronode.perms
Generated by
.B nodeconf.py
every time
.BR dhmode (1)
switches to node mode. Do not edit by hand \-\- changes are overwritten
on the next mode switch.
.TP
.I /etc/ax25/uronode.conf
Shipped by the
.B uronode
package;
.B nodeconf.py
only patches its
.BR HostName ,
.BR NodeId ,
and
.B FlexID
lines, leaving everything else as installed.
.TP
.I /tmp/kisstnc
Dire Wolf's KISS pseudo\-terminal symlink, created by
.BR dhdirewolf (1)
when node mode starts it with
.BR \-p .
.B dhnoded
waits up to 15 seconds for it to appear before giving up.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhnode.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhmode (1)
on first use.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhnoded
does not exit under normal operation; it runs until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded,
.BR kissattach / ax25d / uronode
are not installed, node mode has not been selected yet (no
.IR axports / ax25d.conf ),
this kernel has no AX.25 protocol support, Dire Wolf's KISS pty never
appeared, or
.B kissattach
failed to attach it.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhdirewolf (1),
.BR axnodepass (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR kissattach (8),
.BR ax25d (8),
.BR ax25d.conf (5),
.BR axports (5),
.BR uronode (8),
.BR uronode.conf (5),
.BR uronode.perms (5)
