.TH DHPATD 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhpatd \- run Pat's web interface for DigiHub's Winlink client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhpatd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhpatd
runs
.RI ( pat http ),
the Winlink client
.BR pat (1)'s
own web interface, using the configuration generated at
.IR $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
by
.B patconf.py
from
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo .
.PP
.B dhpatd
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhpat.service
unit, not to be started manually. Like
.BR dhdirewolf.service
and
.BR dhrigctld.service ,
it is
.B not
enabled automatically by
.BR install.sh ;
it stays off until
.BR dhpat (1)
turns it on.
.PP
Unlike Direwolf's TNC/digipeater/tracker modes,
.B dhpatd
is independent of
.BR dhmode (1)
\-\- Pat's web UI doesn't contend for radio hardware on its own (no
connect_aliases are configured by DigiHub in this phase, so Pat only
offers telnet\-based Winlink CMS access, which needs no radio at all)
and can run alongside whichever digital mode is active, or none.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
Pat's own configuration; DigiHub only manages the
.IR mycall ,
.IR secure_login_password ,
and
.I locator
fields (kept in sync with
.IR .dhinfo ),
plus a one\-time default
.I http_addr
of
.I 0.0.0.0:8015
(chosen to avoid colliding with
.BR dhweb (1)'s
default port 8080). Everything else in this file \-\- connect_aliases,
hamlib_rigs, schedule, etc. \-\- is the user's own and is never
overwritten.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhpat.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhpat (1)
on first use.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhpatd
does not exit under normal operation; it serves requests until stopped
(e.g. by systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded,
.B pat
is not installed, or
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
does not exist yet (run
.B "dhpat on"
first).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR pat (1)
