.TH DHPAT 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhpat \- turn DigiHub's Winlink client (Pat) on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhpat
.BR on | off | status
.br
.B dhpat
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhpat
enables, disables, or reports the status of the
.B dhpat.service
systemd unit (see
.BR dhpatd (1)),
which runs the Winlink client
.BR pat (1)'s
web interface.
.PP
Like
.BR dhrig (1),
.B dhpat
is a simple independent toggle, not part of
.BR dhmode (1)'s
mutually\-exclusive digital mode set, and doesn't touch
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B defaultmode
field.
.PP
.B "dhpat on"
regenerates
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
via
.B patconf.py
(syncing
.IR mycall / secure_login_password / locator
from
.I .dhinfo
without disturbing any other settings already in that file), then
installs (if needed), enables, and starts
.BR dhpat.service .
When run as root via sudo (as
.BR dhweb (1)
does),
.B patconf.py
is run as the original invoking user
.RI ( $SUDO_USER ),
not root, so the generated file is owned by the right user and lands
in their
.IR $HOME ,
not root's.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B on
Regenerate Pat's configuration and install/enable/start
.BR dhpat.service .
Requires a callsign in
.I .dhinfo
(always present after install); a Winlink password is recommended but
not required \-\- Pat still runs without one, just without secure CMS
login.
.TP
.B off
Stop and disable
.BR dhpat.service .
.TP
.B status
Print the service's current systemd state
.RI ( active ,
.IR inactive ,
etc.) and exit. Read\-only.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn the Winlink client on:
.B dhpat on
.TP
Turn it off:
.B dhpat off
.TP
Check whether it's running:
.B dhpat status
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Read for
.I callsign
,
.I winlinkpass
, and
.I grid
when turning on.
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
Updated (not overwritten) by
.B patconf.py
when turning on; see
.BR dhpatd (1).
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhpat.service
Installed on first
.B "dhpat on" .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The requested action completed, or help was displayed.
.TP
.B 1
.I .dhinfo
is missing, or (for
.BR on )
.B pat
is not installed or the callsign is not set.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown action was supplied (not
.IR on ,
.IR off ,
or
.IR status ).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhpatd (1),
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
