.TH DHPOWER 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhpower \- reboot or shut down the DigiHub host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhpower
.BR reboot | shutdown
.br
.B dhpower
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhpower
reboots or powers off the whole system it runs on
.RI ( "systemctl reboot" " or " "systemctl poweroff" ),
not just a DigiHub service. Run from a terminal, it prompts for your
own sudo password like any other privileged command; run via
.BR dhweb (1)'s
Power page, it uses the same narrowly\-scoped NOPASSWD sudoers rule
.RI ( /etc/sudoers.d/digihub\-dhmode ,
written by
.BR install.sh )
as
.BR dhmode (1)
and the other web toggles, restricted to exactly the two actions
below \-\- nothing else this rule permits accepts arbitrary input.
.PP
On success this command does not return: the requested action starts
and the system goes down. Whatever mode
.BR dhmode (1)
has active, along with everything else, stops as part of the normal
systemd shutdown sequence \-\- no special handling needed.
.PP
\fBThere is no way to power DigiHub back on remotely after a
shutdown.\fR Rebooting brings it back up on its own in a minute or
two; shutting down requires physically power\-cycling the device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B reboot
Reboot the system
.RI ( "systemctl reboot" ).
.TP
.B shutdown
Power the system off
.RI ( "systemctl poweroff" ).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Reboot now:
.B dhpower reboot
.TP
Shut down now:
.B dhpower shutdown
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Help was displayed. (
.BR reboot / shutdown
do not return on success \-\- the system goes down first.)
.TP
.B 2
An unknown action was supplied (not
.IR reboot
or
.IR shutdown ).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
