.TH DHREMOVE 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhremove \- remove a DigiHub installation from the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhremove
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhremove
removes DigiHub files, packages, user state, profile changes, and the
DigiHub Python virtual environment.
.PP
By default,
.B dhremove
runs interactively, asks for confirmation before removal, and prompts for
a reboot after removal is complete.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Assume yes for the removal confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-reboot
Do not prompt for reboot after removal completes.
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-packages, \-\-no\-packages
Do not purge packages listed in
.IR $HOME/.dhinstalled .
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-profile, \-\-no\-profile
Do not restore or modify
.IR $HOME/.profile .
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-dhinfo, \-\-no\-dhinfo
Do not remove DigiHub user information files such as
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo ,
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo.last ,
and
.IR $HOME/.hamdb.cnf .
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-venv, \-\-no\-venv
Do not remove the DigiHub Python virtual environment.
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-files, \-\-no\-files
Do not remove DigiHub files listed in
.IR /usr/local/bin/.digihub.manifest .
.TP
.B \-\-keep\-service, \-\-no\-service
Do not stop, disable, or remove the GPS monitor systemd service
.RI ( dhgpsmonitor.service ),
the DigiHub web interface service
.RI ( dhweb.service ),
the Direwolf service
.RI ( dhdirewolf.service ),
the CAT control service
.RI ( dhrigctld.service ),
and the Winlink (Pat) service
.RI ( dhpat.service ),
their configuration in
.IR /etc/digihub ,
the HamDB daily update timer
.RI ( dhhamdbupdate.timer / .service ),
or the DigiHub update check timer
.RI ( dhupdatecheck.timer / .service ).
.TP
.B \-\-files\-only
Remove only DigiHub files listed in
.IR /usr/local/bin/.digihub.manifest .
This also disables package removal, profile restoration, DigiHub user
information removal, Python virtual environment removal, systemd
timer/service removal, and reboot prompting. It assumes yes for the
removal confirmation.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinstalled
Package list created during DigiHub installation.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/.digihub.manifest
Manifest of installed DigiHub files.
.TP
.I $HOME/.profile
User shell profile restored or cleaned during removal.
.TP
.I $HOME/.profile.dh
Backup of the original user shell profile, restored when present.
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
.TQ
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
.TQ
.I $HOME/.hamdb.cnf
.TQ
.I $HOME/.digihub-update-available
.TQ
.I $HOME/.digihub-dhinfo-missing
DigiHub user information files removed by default.
.I .hamdb.cnf
holds the local MySQL/MariaDB credentials generated for the hamdb FCC
callsign database.
.I .digihub-update-available
is the flag file
.BR dhupdate / dhupdatecheck
use to signal a pending update at login.
.I .digihub-dhinfo-missing
is the flag file
.B dhupdate
writes when
.I .dhinfo
is missing and no
.I .dhinfo.last
backup is available to restore it from.
.TP
.I $HOME/.digihub-venv
DigiHub Python virtual environment removed by default.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhgpsmonitor.service
GPS monitor systemd service, stopped, disabled, and removed by default.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhweb.service
DigiHub web interface systemd service, stopped, disabled, and removed
by default.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhdirewolf.service
Direwolf systemd service, stopped, disabled, and removed by default.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhrigctld.service
CAT control systemd service, stopped, disabled, and removed by
default.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhpat.service
Winlink (Pat) systemd service, stopped, disabled, and removed by
default. Does
.B not
touch
.IR $HOME/.config/pat ,
which holds Pat's own messages, address book, and configuration \-\-
that is the user's data, not something DigiHub generated, and always
survives removal.
.TP
.I /etc/digihub
GPS monitor configuration
.RI ( gpsmonitor.env ),
DigiHub web interface configuration
.RI ( web.env ),
Direwolf configuration
.RI ( direwolf.conf ),
and CAT control configuration
.RI ( rigctld.env ),
removed by default; the directory itself is removed once empty.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhhamdbupdate.timer
.TQ
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhhamdbupdate.service
HamDB daily update timer, stopped, disabled, and removed by default.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhupdatecheck.timer
.TQ
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhupdatecheck.service
DigiHub update check timer, stopped, disabled, and removed by default.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Remove DigiHub interactively:
.B dhremove
.TP
Remove DigiHub without confirmation:
.B dhremove \-\-yes
.TP
Remove DigiHub without prompting for reboot:
.B dhremove \-\-yes \-\-no\-reboot
.TP
Remove only files listed in the DigiHub manifest:
.B dhremove \-\-files\-only
.TP
Remove DigiHub but keep installed packages:
.B dhremove \-\-keep\-packages
.TP
Remove DigiHub but keep the Python virtual environment:
.B dhremove \-\-keep\-venv
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Removal completed successfully, help was displayed, or the user
cancelled the operation.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown command line option was supplied.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhupdate (1)
