.TH DHRESET 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhreset \- reset DigiHub's configuration back to nothing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhreset
[\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-yes\fR]
.br
.B dhreset
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhreset
deletes
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
and its rolling backup
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo.last ,
resetting DigiHub's callsign/license/location/radio configuration back
to nothing. It does
.B not
touch installed scripts, packages, or systemd units \-\- DigiHub stays
fully installed, just unconfigured, exactly the state
.BR install.sh
leaves it in before the operator first answers the setup prompts.
.PP
Both files are deleted together deliberately: leaving
.I .dhinfo.last
behind would let
.BR dhupdate (1)
silently restore the old configuration right back on its next run (see
.BR dhupdate (1)
for its own missing\-.dhinfo recovery logic, which this relies on in
reverse).
.PP
Nothing derived from
.I .dhinfo
by an individual mode or service
.RI ( direwolf.conf ,
Pat's
.IR config.json ,
.IR axports ,
etc.) is touched \-\- each is simply regenerated the next time that
mode or service is turned on, against whatever configuration exists
at the time. Already\-running services keep running on their existing
generated config until explicitly reconfigured or restarted.
.PP
.BR sysinfo (1)'s
login reminder for a missing configuration fires immediately after a
reset, not just on the next
.BR dhupdate (1)
check\-in.
.PP
Run from a terminal or the web console,
.B dhreset
asks for confirmation first unless
.B \-\-yes
is given. Run via
.BR dhweb (1)'s
System page, it always passes
.BR \-\-yes ,
relying on the page's own browser confirmation dialog instead \-\- no
sudoers rule is involved,
.I .dhinfo
is owned by the operator account both
.B dhweb
and this command already run as.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Reset interactively (asks for confirmation):
.B dhreset
.TP
Reset without prompting:
.B dhreset \-\-yes
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
.TQ
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
Deleted.
.TP
.I $HOME/.digihub-dhinfo-missing
Written so
.BR sysinfo (1)
surfaces the reset immediately.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Configuration reset, the prompt was declined, or help was displayed.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown option was supplied.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR dhupdate (1),
.BR install.sh ,
.BR sysinfo (1)
