.TH DHRIG 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhrig \- turn DigiHub's CAT control (rigctld) on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhrig
.BR on | off | status
.br
.B dhrig
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhrig
enables, disables, or reports the status of the
.B dhrigctld.service
systemd unit (see
.BR dhrigctld (1)),
which runs hamlib's
.B rigctld
for network CAT control of the radio.
.PP
Unlike
.BR dhmode (1),
which switches between mutually exclusive digital modes,
.B dhrig
is a simple independent toggle: CAT control isn't part of that
mutual\-exclusion set and doesn't touch
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B defaultmode
field.
.PP
.B "dhrig on"
requires
.I rignumber
and
.I rigdevice
to already be set in
.I .dhinfo
(via
.BR dhedit (1)
or
.BR dhweb (1));
if they aren't, it fails with a message telling you to set them
first. The first time it's turned on, the
.B dhrigctld.service
unit is installed from its cached template, the same way
.B dhmode
installs on\-demand service units.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B on
Set
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
required; install (if needed), enable, and start
.BR dhrigctld.service .
.TP
.B off
Stop and disable
.BR dhrigctld.service .
.TP
.B status
Print the service's current systemd state
.RI ( active ,
.IR inactive ,
etc.) and exit. Read\-only.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn CAT control on:
.B dhrig on
.TP
Turn it off:
.B dhrig off
.TP
Check whether it's running:
.B dhrig status
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Read for
.I rignumber
and
.I rigdevice
when turning on.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhrigctld.service
Installed on first
.B "dhrig on" .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The requested action completed, or help was displayed.
.TP
.B 1
.I .dhinfo
is missing, or (for
.BR on )
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
are not set.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown action was supplied (not
.IR on ,
.IR off ,
or
.IR status ).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhrigctld (1),
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
