.TH DHRIGCTLD 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhrigctld \- run hamlib's rigctld for DigiHub CAT control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhrigctld
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhrigctld
runs hamlib's
.BR rigctld (1)
using the rig model, device, and baud rate stored in
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo
.RI ( rignumber ,
.IR rigdevice ,
.IR rigbaud ),
giving other applications (WSJT\-X, FLDigi, Winlink clients, etc.)
network\-based CAT control of the radio without each needing its own
serial connection.
.PP
.B dhrigctld
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhrigctld.service
unit, not to be started manually. Unlike
.BR dhgpsmonitor.service
or
.BR dhweb.service ,
it is
.B not
enabled automatically by
.BR install.sh ;
it stays off until
.BR dhrig (1)
turns it on, since a freshly installed system has no rig configured
yet.
.PP
CAT control is independent of DigiHub's digital mode selector
.RB ( dhmode (1))
\-\- it can run alongside whichever mode (or no mode) is active,
provided the radio's CAT interface isn't the same physical port
.BR dhmode 's
current mode is already using for PTT.
.PP
One concrete consumer:
.BR dhardop (1)'s
.B patconf.py
step wires
.BR pat (1)
to control PTT for ARDOP through
.B dhrigctld
(rather than giving
.B ardopcf
its own serial port options) whenever
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
are set \-\- ardopcf's own upstream documentation recommends this
approach specifically to avoid two programs fighting over the same
port.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn CAT control on (starts/enables this service automatically):
.B dhrig on
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhrigctld
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhrigctld \-f
.TP
Query the rig from another terminal once running:
.B rigctl \-m 2 \-r localhost:4532 f
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/digihub/rigctld.env
Listen address/port
.RI ( DigiHubRigctldHost ,
default 0.0.0.0;
.IR DigiHubRigctldPort ,
default 4532), written by
.BR install.sh .
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhrigctld.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhrig (1)
on first use.
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Read for
.IR rignumber ,
.IR rigdevice ,
and
.IR rigbaud .
Changing these while the service is running requires a restart
.RI ( dhrig off
then
.BR "dhrig on" )
to take effect.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhrigctld
does not exit under normal operation; it runs until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded,
.I .dhinfo
is missing,
.B rigctld
is not installed, or
.I rignumber
/
.I rigdevice
are not set.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhardop (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR rigctld (1)
