.TH DHUPDATE 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhupdate \- sync installed DigiHub scripts against the latest GitHub repository
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhupdate
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhupdate
clones the latest DigiHub repository
.RI ( github.com/debods/DigiHubHam )
into a temporary directory, compares it against the currently installed
files listed in
.IR /usr/local/bin/.digihub.manifest ,
and syncs the installation to match: new files are added, changed files
are replaced, and files no longer present upstream are removed. This
covers installed scripts, the shared UI library
.RI ( /usr/local/lib/digihub/dh.lib ),
cached systemd unit templates, and installed man pages.
.PP
By default,
.B dhupdate
lists what would change and asks for confirmation before applying
anything.
.PP
If
.BR dhgpsmonitor 's
script changes and the
.B dhgpsmonitor
systemd service is currently active,
.B dhupdate
restarts it automatically so the update takes effect immediately.
.PP
.B dhupdate
requires
.BR git (1)
and internet connectivity, and only touches files under
.IR /usr/local/bin ,
.IR /usr/local/lib/digihub ,
and
.IR /usr/local/share/man/man1 .
.PP
Whenever changes are found (whether by
.BR \-\-check ,
or by declining the interactive prompt),
.B dhupdate
writes
.IR $HOME/.digihub-update-available ,
which
.BR sysinfo (1)
checks on every login and surfaces as a one\-line reminder. The flag is
cleared automatically once an update is applied, or once a later check
finds nothing pending. A systemd timer,
.BR dhupdatecheck ,
runs
.B "dhupdate \-\-check"
once a day so this reminder appears without the user having to run
.B dhupdate
manually first.
.PP
Every run also checks that
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
exists. If it is missing but
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
(a rolling backup, kept up to date by
.BR install.sh
and
.BR dhedit (1)
whenever they save
.IR .dhinfo )
is present,
.I .dhinfo
is restored from it automatically. If no backup exists either,
.B dhupdate
writes
.IR $HOME/.digihub-dhinfo-missing ,
which
.BR sysinfo (1)
also surfaces as a login reminder, since there is nothing to
automatically recover from in that case.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.TP
.B \-y, \-\-yes
Assume yes for the update confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-check
Check only: report whether changes are available and update the login
reminder flag, but do not prompt or apply anything. Intended for
unattended/scheduled use (see
.BR dhupdatecheck.timer ).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check for and apply updates interactively:
.B dhupdate
.TP
Apply updates without confirmation (e.g. from a script or cron job):
.B dhupdate \-\-yes
.TP
Check for updates without applying them:
.B dhupdate \-\-check
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/.digihub.manifest
Manifest of installed DigiHub files; also rewritten to reflect the file
set after a successful update.
.TP
.I $HOME/.digihub-update-available
Flag file written whenever changes are found but not applied; read by
.BR sysinfo (1)
and cleared once an update is applied or a later check finds nothing
pending.
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
.TQ
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
Checked on every run; a missing
.I .dhinfo
is restored from
.I .dhinfo.last
automatically if present.
.TP
.I $HOME/.digihub-dhinfo-missing
Flag file written when
.I .dhinfo
is missing and no backup is available; read by
.BR sysinfo (1)
and cleared once
.I .dhinfo
exists again.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Up to date, update applied successfully, help was displayed, or the user
declined the update.
.TP
.B 1
A prerequisite failed (missing manifest, missing git, no network
connectivity, or the repository could not be cloned).
.TP
.B 2
An unknown command line option was supplied.
.TP
.B 3
.B \-\-check
found changes available (not applied).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhremove (1),
.BR sysinfo (1)
