.TH DHWEBCHAT 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhwebchat \- turn DigiHub's APRS WebChat (aprsd) on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhwebchat
.BR on | off | status
.br
.B dhwebchat
[\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhwebchat
enables, disables, or reports the status of the
.B dhwebchat.service
systemd unit (see
.BR dhwebchatd (1)),
which runs aprsd's
.B webchat
command, a browser\-based APRS messaging interface.
.PP
Like
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
and
.BR dhardop (1),
.B dhwebchat
is a simple independent toggle, not part of
.BR dhmode (1)'s
mutually\-exclusive digital mode set, and doesn't touch
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B defaultmode
field. Unlike those three, it needs no exclusive radio hardware of its
own: it rides on whichever Direwolf\-backed mode's KISS\-over\-TCP port
is already active (or none, if you only want WebChat running to
compose/read locally) \-\- see
.BR dhwebchatd (1)
for the full explanation.
.PP
.B "dhwebchat on"
regenerates
.I $HOME/.config/aprsd/aprsd.conf
via
.B webchatconf.py
(callsign, latitude/longitude from
.IR .dhinfo ),
then installs (if needed), enables, and starts
.BR dhwebchat.service .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B on
Regenerate aprsd's configuration and install (if needed)/enable/start
.BR dhwebchat.service .
.TP
.B off
Stop and disable
.BR dhwebchat.service .
.TP
.B status
Print the service's current systemd state
.RI ( active ,
.IR inactive ,
etc.) and exit. Read\-only.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display this help information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Turn APRS WebChat on:
.B dhwebchat on
.TP
Turn it off:
.B dhwebchat off
.TP
Check whether it's running:
.B dhwebchat status
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Read for
.I callsign
(required),
.IR lat ,
and
.I lon
when turning on.
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/aprsd/aprsd.conf
Regenerated by
.B webchatconf.py
when turning on; see
.BR dhwebchatd (1).
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhwebchat.service
Installed on first
.B "dhwebchat on" .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
The requested action completed, or help was displayed.
.TP
.B 1
.I .dhinfo
is missing, or (for
.BR on )
.B aprsd
is not installed in the DigiHub Python virtual environment, or
configuration generation failed.
.TP
.B 2
An unknown action was supplied (not
.IR on ,
.IR off ,
or
.IR status ).
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhwebchatd (1),
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhardop (1),
.BR dhweb (1)
