.TH DHWEB 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhweb \- DigiHub web configuration interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhweb
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhweb
serves a phone/tablet\-friendly web page for reviewing and editing the
DigiHub configuration stored in
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo ,
as an alternative to the interactive
.BR dhedit (1)
terminal editor. It is a Flask application served by
.B waitress
(a pure\-Python WSGI server), started by the
.B scripts/dhweb
wrapper.
.PP
.B dhweb
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhweb.service
unit, not to be started manually. It is installed and enabled
automatically by
.BR install.sh .
.PP
The Configuration page mirrors
.BR dhedit 's
field list: callsign, license, name, address, latitude/longitude (with
the Maidenhead grid derived automatically), the Mapbox API token, the
AX Node password, the Winlink password, the VNC password, the default
mode, and the radio interface / rig control fields. The APRS password is derived
from the callsign and shown read\-only. Validation reuses the same
installed workers
.BR dhedit
does
.RI ( validcall.py ,
.IR validcoords.py ,
.IR maidenhead.py ,
.IR aprspass.py )
so the two editors never disagree about what a valid value looks like.
Saving backs up the previous
.I .dhinfo
contents to
.I .dhinfo.last
first, exactly like
.BR dhedit (1)
and
.BR install.sh .
.PP
The Mode page shows the current mode, the status of the systemd
service(s) it maps to, and a recent log tail, and can switch modes.
For the
.BR wsjtx / js8call / qsstv
modes (see
.BR dhwsjtxd (1)), it also links to the noVNC remote desktop those
modes run on \-\- you'll be asked for the VNC Password from the
Configuration page.
The Rig Control page shows the configured rig model/device/baud and
the status of
.BR dhrigctld (1),
and can turn CAT control on or off. The Winlink page shows the
configured callsign/locator, whether a Winlink password is set, and
the status of
.BR dhpatd (1),
can turn it on or off, and links out to Pat's own web interface rather
than reimplementing it. The ARDOP page shows the status of
.BR dhardopd (1),
whether PTT is wired up via
.BR dhrigctld (1)
(see
.BR dhardop (1)
for how that's decided), can turn it on or off, and links out to
.B ardopcf 's
own web GUI rather than reimplementing it. The WebChat page shows the
status of
.BR dhwebchatd (1),
whether a Direwolf\-backed mode is currently active (WebChat needs one
to actually move messages over RF, though it isn't required just to
turn WebChat on), can turn it on or off, and links out to aprsd's own
WebChat browser UI rather than reimplementing it. The Console page
shows the status of
.BR dhconsoled (1),
can turn it on or off, and links out to its own browser\-based
terminal \-\- which opens straight into a shell as the DigiHub operator
account, no username or password (see
.BR dhconsole (1)
for why). The Update page runs
.BR dhupdate (1)'s
check on every visit and shows what, if anything, is available;
applying it runs
.BR "dhupdate \-\-yes" ,
and the full Added/Changed/Removed report and any service restarts are
shown inline. These seven pages run their respective command
.RB ( dhmode (1),
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhardop (1),
.BR dhwebchat (1),
.BR dhconsole (1),
or
.BR "dhupdate \-\-yes" )
via a narrowly scoped NOPASSWD sudoers rule
.RI ( /etc/sudoers.d/digihub\-dhmode ,
written by
.BR install.sh )
that permits only those seven scripts; the first six still validate
their arguments against a fixed whitelist before anything privileged
happens \-\- dhupdate's trust boundary is the pinned upstream repository
it clones from instead (see
.BR dhupdate (1)).
The check itself
.RI ( "dhupdate \-\-check" )
is read\-only and needs no sudo. Reading service status and logs
requires
.B dhweb.service
to run with the
.B systemd\-journal
supplementary group, which
.B install.sh
also sets up.
.PP
The FLDigi page talks directly to FLDigi's own XML\-RPC control
interface
.RI ( 127.0.0.1:7362 ,
FLDigi's default) \-\- no sudoers rule is involved.
.B dhweb
never starts, stops, or otherwise manages the FLDigi process: FLDigi
is a GUI application with no headless mode, so it must already be
running locally (a monitor and keyboard, or your own remote desktop
session) with its XML\-RPC server enabled (on by default). If FLDigi
isn't reachable, the page says so and shows the command to start it.
When it is, the page shows version/TX\-RX\-status/modem/frequency and
can change the modem, set the frequency, and trigger TX/RX/abort.
.PP
The GUI Apps page reports whether
.BR wsjtx (1),
.BR js8call (1),
and
.BR qsstv (1)
are installed
.RI ( "dpkg \-s" ,
no root needed). Like FLDigi, all three are GUI\-only applications with
no headless mode and, unlike FLDigi, no remote\-control protocol
.B dhweb
uses \-\- this page only reports install status, it does not start,
stop, or otherwise talk to any of them; run them yourself from the
local console.
.PP
The Manual page renders every installed DigiHub man page
.RI ( /usr/local/share/man/man1/*.1 )
in the browser, via
.BR man (1)
itself
.RI ( man\-db ,
already an
.BR install.sh
dependency) rather than a second markup renderer \-\- no
.B mandoc
or
.B groff\-html
dependency needed. Read\-only, no sudoers rule involved; the page name
is checked against the actual installed file list before
.BR man (1)
is ever invoked.
.PP
Configuration is supplied entirely through environment variables,
normally set via the unit's EnvironmentFile
.RI ( /etc/digihub/web.env ):
.TP
.B DigiHubvenv
Path to the DigiHub Python virtual environment
.TP
.B DigiHubWebHost
Address to bind to (default 0.0.0.0, i.e. all interfaces)
.TP
.B DigiHubWebPort
TCP port to listen on (default 8080)
.PP
.B dhweb
performs no authentication and is intended to be reachable only from a
trusted local network (e.g. the same Wi\-Fi or hotspot the DigiHub
device itself is on). Do not expose it to the open internet.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhweb
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhweb \-f
.TP
Open the Configuration page from a browser on the same network:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/config
.TP
Open the Mode page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/mode
.TP
Open the Rig Control page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/rig
.TP
Open the Winlink page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/pat
.TP
Open the ARDOP page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/ardop
.TP
Open the WebChat page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/webchat
.TP
Open the FLDigi page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/fldigi
.TP
Open the GUI Apps page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/guiapps
.TP
Open the Console page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/console
.TP
Open the Update page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/update
.TP
Open the Manual page:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/docs
.TP
Open a specific man page directly:
.B http://<digihub\-host>:8080/docs?page=dhmode
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/digihub/web.env
Environment file supplying the variables above; written by
.BR install.sh .
.TP
.I /etc/sudoers.d/digihub\-dhmode
NOPASSWD rule permitting
.IR /usr/local/bin/dhmode ,
.IR /usr/local/bin/dhrig ,
.IR /usr/local/bin/dhpat ,
.IR /usr/local/bin/dhardop ,
.IR /usr/local/bin/dhwebchat ,
.IR /usr/local/bin/dhconsole ,
and
.I /usr/local/bin/dhupdate
only, used by the Mode, Rig Control, Winlink, ARDOP, WebChat, Console,
and Update pages; written by
.BR install.sh .
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/man/man1/*.1
Installed man pages; read (via
.BR man (1))
by the Manual page.
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhweb.service
The systemd unit that runs this service.
.TP
.I /usr/local/lib/digihub/dhweb
Installed Flask application (app.py, dhinfo.py, fldigi_client.py,
templates, static assets), kept in sync by
.BR dhupdate (1).
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/pat/config.json
Pat's own configuration; the Winlink page never reads or writes this
file directly, only shows/edits the underlying
.I .dhinfo
fields and toggles
.BR dhpat.service ,
which regenerates it via
.BR patconf.py ;
see
.BR dhpatd (1).
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
.TQ
.I $HOME/.dhinfo.last
Read and, on save, rewritten (with a backup) by the Configuration page.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhweb
does not exit under normal operation; it serves requests until stopped
(e.g. by systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded, the DigiHub Python virtual
environment (DigiHubvenv) was not found, or the installed application
.RI ( /usr/local/lib/digihub/dhweb/app.py )
is missing.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhedit (1),
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhrig (1),
.BR dhpat (1),
.BR dhardop (1),
.BR dhwebchat (1),
.BR dhconsole (1),
.BR dhupdate (1),
.BR fldigi (1),
.BR pat (1)
