.TH DHWSJTXD 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
dhwsjtxd \- run WSJT-X on a TigerVNC + noVNC remote desktop for DigiHub's wsjtx mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhwsjtxd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dhwsjtxd
starts a TigerVNC desktop
.RI ( :1 ,
port 5901), bridges it into the browser with noVNC (port 6080), and
runs
.BR wsjtx (1)
on it \-\- DigiHub's answer to WSJT-X having no headless mode.
.PP
.B dhwsjtxd
is designed to run under systemd as the
.B dhwsjtx.service
unit, not to be started manually. Unlike APRS WebChat
.RB ( dhwebchat (1))
or CAT control/Winlink/ARDOP, WSJT\-X needs exclusive access to the
same sound card Direwolf/ardopcf use, so
.B wsjtx
is a real
.BR dhmode (1)
mode, not an independent toggle: selecting it stops every other mode
first, matching DigiPi's own
.B wsjtx.service
(confirmed via
.IR github.com/craigerl/digipi ),
which does the same exclusive stop\-everything\-else dance.
.PP
Unlike everything else
.B install.sh
sets up,
.B wsjtx
and the rest of the VNC stack are
.B not
installed by default \-\-
.B install.sh
asks about it explicitly (it's the heaviest, most niche\-interest slice
of the install). If declined,
.B dhwsjtxd
fails with a clear message naming the packages to install rather than
silently doing nothing.
.PP
The underlying mechanism (shared with
.BR dhjs8calld (1)
and
.BR dhqsstvd (1)
via
.B run_vnc_session()
in
.BR dh.lib ):
.BR tigervncserver (1)
(from the
.B tigervnc\-standalone\-server
package) starts the VNC desktop and daemonizes itself; a Fluxbox window
manager launches inside it via
.IR $HOME/.config/tigervnc/xstartup ;
.B novnc_proxy
(from the
.B novnc
package) bridges VNC to a websocket the browser can speak; then
.B dhwsjtxd
execs into
.B wsjtx
itself as the final foreground process systemd tracks. Stopping the
service (systemd's default
.BR KillMode=control\-group )
cleans up the backgrounded
.B tigervncserver
and
.B novnc_proxy
processes too, the same reasoning already used for
.BR dhnoded (1)'s
.BR kissattach / ax25d
pair.
.PP
Deliberately
.BR tigervncserver ,
not the bare
.BR vncserver :
Debian's
.B tigervnc\-standalone\-server
package only ever installs
.IR /usr/bin/tigervncserver ,
no
.B vncserver
alias. On Raspberry Pi OS specifically,
.I /usr/bin/vncserver
(if present at all) belongs to the pre\-installed RealVNC server
instead, which has a completely different, incompatible command line
\-\- same story for
.B tigervncpasswd
below versus a bare
.BR vncpasswd .
.PP
The VNC password comes from
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo 's
.B vncpass
field, written to
.I $HOME/.config/tigervnc/passwd
by
.B install.sh
via
.BR tigervncpasswd (1)
.RI ( "tigervncpasswd \-f" ,
non\-interactive filter mode). Change it with
.BR dhedit (1)
or
.BR dhweb (1)'s
Configuration page, then re\-run
.B install.sh
(or
.B "tigervncpasswd \-f < ~/.config/tigervnc/passwd"
by hand) to apply it \-\- there's no automatic re\-sync.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Select wsjtx mode (starts this service automatically):
.B dhmode wsjtx
.TP
Check the running service's status and recent log output:
.B systemctl status dhwsjtx
.br
.B journalctl \-u dhwsjtx \-f
.TP
Open the remote desktop once running (also linked from
.BR dhweb (1)'s
Mode page):
.B http://<digihub\-host>:6080/vnc.html
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/tigervnc/xstartup
Written by
.BR install.sh ;
launches Fluxbox for the VNC desktop's window manager.
.TP
.I $HOME/.config/tigervnc/passwd
Written by
.BR install.sh
from
.IR .dhinfo 's
.I vncpass
field via
.BR tigervncpasswd (1).
.TP
.I /etc/systemd/system/dhwsjtx.service
The systemd unit that runs this daemon, installed and enabled by
.BR dhmode (1)
on first use.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B dhwsjtxd
does not exit under normal operation; it runs until stopped (e.g. by
systemd).
.TP
.B 1
The shared UI library could not be loaded,
.B wsjtx
is not installed, or
.BR tigervncserver (1)
is not installed.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dhmode (1),
.BR dhjs8calld (1),
.BR dhqsstvd (1),
.BR dhweb (1),
.BR tigervncserver (1),
.BR tigervncpasswd (1)
