.TH HAMDB 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
hamdb \- download, maintain, and query a local MariaDB copy of the FCC amateur radio license database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hamdb
.I command
[\fIargument\fR]
.br
.B hamdb
.I callsign
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hamdb
is a third\-party utility
.RI ( https://github.com/k3ng/hamdb ,
Copyright (C) 2001\-2024 Anthony Good), adapted in this repository for
MariaDB 10.5+
.RB ( mariadb\-import
replaces the removed
.B mysqlimport
command). Its behavior is otherwise unmodified.
.PP
DigiHub creates the "hamdb" MariaDB user, populates the database with
.B "hamdb full"
during installation, and refreshes it daily via the
.B dhhamdbupdate
systemd timer (see the README's "HamDB (FCC Callsign Database)"
section). Most users only need
.B "hamdb <callsign>"
(or, more commonly,
.BR "qrz <callsign>" ,
which layers HamDB API enrichment and geocoding on top).
.PP
With no recognized command,
.B hamdb
treats the argument as a callsign and looks it up directly.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.I callsign
Look up a callsign directly (equivalent to the default case below).
.TP
.BR full ", " populatedb ", " populatedatabase ", " updatedatabase ", " updatedb ", " update
Download and import FCC data.
.B full
always forces a complete re\-import. The other aliases import a full
copy only if run on a Monday (i.e. the day after Sunday) or if the
local "en" table is currently empty; otherwise they pull the smaller
daily update file.
.TP
.B getfccfile
Download the full FCC data file only, without importing it.
.TP
.BR makedatabase ", " makedb
Create the fcc_amateur database and its tables without importing any
data.
.TP
.B removedb
Drop the entire fcc_amateur database.
.TP
.B removetables
Drop the en, am, hd, hs tables and their _temp variants.
.TP
.B cleanup
Remove temporary download/import files left in
.IR ~/hamdb.temp .
.TP
.BI zipcode " ZIP"
List active amateurs whose ZIP code starts with
.IR ZIP .
.TP
.BI state " ST"
List active amateurs licensed in state
.IR ST .
.TP
.BI like " CALLSIGN"
Search active amateurs by callsign prefix (SQL wildcards allowed).
.TP
.BI last " LASTNAME"
Search by last name.
.TP
.BI lastname " LASTNAME"
Search active amateurs by last name.
.TP
.BI former " CALLSIGN"
Look up a callsign's record and any former\-callsign history.
.TP
.BI history " CALLSIGN"
Show a callsign's licensing action history.
.TP
.B lastissued
List the most recently issued licenses (piped through
.BR more (1)).
.TP
.BI lastissuedstate " ST"
Most recently issued licenses in state
.IR ST .
.TP
.BI lastissuedzip " ZIP"
Most recently issued licenses whose ZIP starts with
.I ZIP
(partial ZIPs are fine).
.TP
.B dumptableen
Dump the full "en" (entity) table.
.TP
.BR dbcount ", " count ", " counts
Show row counts for each table, and a status breakdown of the hd table.
.TP
.BI sql " \(dqSQL STATEMENT\(dq"
Run an arbitrary SQL statement against the fcc_amateur database.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help ", " help
Display hamdb's built\-in (abbreviated) command summary.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version ", " version
Display hamdb's version string.
.SH CONFIGURATION
On first run, if
.I ~/.hamdb.cnf
does not exist,
.B hamdb
prompts interactively for a MySQL/MariaDB username and password and
saves them to
.I ~/.hamdb.cnf
(mode 700). DigiHub creates this file automatically during
installation, so this prompt normally never appears;
.BR qrz (1)
reads the same file for its own database queries.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Look up a callsign:
.B hamdb W0FFS
.TP
Force a full database re\-import:
.B hamdb full
.TP
Run the same day\-aware update the daily timer uses:
.B hamdb update
.TP
List active amateurs in ZIP 33558:
.B hamdb zipcode 33558
.TP
Run a custom query:
.B hamdb sql "select count(*) from en"
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.hamdb.cnf
MySQL/MariaDB credentials (MYSQLUSERNAME, MYSQLPASSWD), mode 700.
Created automatically by
.BR install.sh .
.TP
.I ~/hamdb.temp
Working directory for downloaded/imported FCC data files; cleaned up
automatically after a successful import.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B hamdb
does not use a formal, documented set of exit codes; it generally
reflects the exit status of the underlying wget/curl, unzip, and
mysql/mariadb commands it runs.
.SH AUTHOR
Anthony Good, adapted for DigiHub by Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR qrz (1)
