.TH POSITION 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
position \- read and display the current position from the configured GPS device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B position
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B position
activates the DigiHub Python virtual environment, calls
.B position.py
to read a fix from the configured GPS device, then calculates the
Maidenhead grid square for that fix with
.BR maidenhead.py .
.PP
This is a one\-shot, interactive read: it waits up to
.BR position.py 's
default timeout (5 seconds) for a fix and prints whatever it receives.
It does not update
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo ;
that is handled continuously in the background by the
.BR dhgpsmonitor (1)
service when a GPS device is configured.
.PP
If no GPS device is configured (DigiHubGPSport is "nogps"),
.B position
prints an error and exits without attempting a read. If a device is
configured but does not return a fix in time, no coordinates are
printed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Read the current GPS position:
.B position
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/position.py
Reads the raw NMEA fix from the configured serial device.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/maidenhead.py
Calculates the grid square from the fix.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Ran to completion (a fix may or may not have been printed, depending on
whether the GPS device responded in time).
.TP
.B 1
No GPS device is configured for DigiHub (DigiHubGPSport is "nogps"). Run
.B dhedit
and use "Manage GPS device" to add one.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR maidenhead (1),
.BR dhgpsmonitor (1),
.BR dhedit (1)
