.TH QRZ 1 "July 2026" "DigiHub" "DigiHub User Manual"
.SH NAME
qrz \- look up a US amateur radio callsign's FCC license and address information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qrz
.I callsign
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B qrz
looks up a callsign using, in order:
.RS
.IP 1. 4
The local hamdb MariaDB database (populated by
.B "hamdb full"
at install time and refreshed daily by the
.B dhhamdbupdate
timer), enriched with grid/latitude/longitude from the hamdb.org API
when available.
.IP 2. 4
If the local database is unavailable or has no record, the hamdb.org
API directly.
.RE
.PP
If neither source provides usable coordinates, and a Mapbox API token is
configured (field 19 of
.IR $HOME/.dhinfo ,
set during installation or later via
.BR dhedit (1)),
.B qrz
geocodes the license address as a fallback using
.BR geocode.py .
This step is entirely optional: with no token configured,
.B qrz
simply skips it and shows whatever coordinates the other sources
provided (if any).
.PP
Results are rendered as a formatted operator/license/address/grid
summary, noting which source(s) the data came from.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I callsign
The US amateur radio callsign to look up. Required. Must contain only
letters, digits, and "/".
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Look up a callsign:
.B qrz W0FFS
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.hamdb.cnf
MySQL/MariaDB credentials used for the local database lookup; see
.BR hamdb (1).
.TP
.I $HOME/.dhinfo
Field 19 (mapboxtoken) is read for the optional geocoding fallback.
.TP
.I /usr/local/bin/geocode.py
Performs the optional Mapbox geocoding fallback.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Callsign found and displayed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Incorrect syntax (no callsign supplied), or the callsign contains
characters outside A\-Z, 0\-9, and "/".
.TP
.B 2
Neither the local database nor the hamdb.org API returned a result.
.TP
.B 4
A result was returned but did not match the requested callsign, or the
callsign is not a valid/found US license.
.SH AUTHOR
Steve de Bode \- W0FFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hamdb (1),
.BR whohami (1),
.BR dhedit (1)
